Describe allow-* properties in Hive and Cassandra (#11049)
trinodb/trino: docs/src/main/sphinx/connector/hive.rst

                                                   Set to ``false`` to disable statistics. Disabling statistics
                                                   means that :doc:`/optimizer/cost-based-optimizations` can 
                                                   not make smart decisions about the query plan.

> ``hive.allow-drop-table``                          Enables :doc:`/sql/drop-table` operations.                    ``false``

Reviewer: This isn't a general Hive property. It should be documented only in the Hive security page.

Reviewer 2: agreed

Author: Removed from this section, instead described behavior in more detail down in SQL support

* :ref:`sql-security-operations`, see also :ref:`hive-sql-standard-based-authorization`
* :ref:`sql-transactions`

Some :ref:`sql-data-management` statements may be affected by the
Hive catalog's security policy and be disabled by default. See

> :doc:`hive-security` for more information.

Reviewer: Let's also emphasize the default value in the opening paragraph above the table in the hive security page.
A small intro like "The default authorization check is `legacy` which disables some operations like adding, dropping or renaming tables or columns unless configured otherwise. See the table below for details"?

Because currently once I follow this link I'm taken to a table which does mention the configs but not their implication (that operations are disallowed by default).

Reviewer: And in some follow-up work we can give each of those entries in the table their own section which explains them a bit - similar to the one we already have for SQL Standard.

Author: Added that emphasis

Reviewer: I meant the opening paragraph on the Hive security page but this works just as well.

* :ref:`sql-security-operations`, see also :ref:`hive-sql-standard-based-authorization`
* :ref:`sql-transactions`

Some :ref:`sql-data-management` statements may be affected by the
Hive catalog's authorization check policy. In the default ``legacy`` policy,

> these statements are disabled by default. See :doc:`hive-security` for more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
some statements are disabled by default. See :doc:`hive-security` for more
```

    to the Trino logs and query failure messages to see which files need to be
    deleted.

> SQL security enforcement

Reviewer: This information belongs in Hive security doc at the same level as "SQL standard based authorization". Other types of hive.security should be documented there too (not required in this change itself).

This page can maybe just mention that Hive connector supports Connector access control and that the default is legacy and link them to proper place?

WDYT @jhlodin ?

Author: My concern is that an outcome of current behavior is a user runs a statement like `DROP TABLE` and is told in the UI that it's unsupported, then in this SQL support section we say it's supported. This new content can be more succinct than this, but I do think we need a way to catch those readers who won't make the security connection.

The "SQL security enforcement" header could easily be changed to better reflect this content though. Maybe "Manage SQL statement support" or similar?

Reviewer: BTW the error they get isn't that DROP TABLE isn't supported or invalid syntax. They get an Access Denied error mentioning that they don't have the privilege.

Author: That's a good idea, and very glad to hear that the error message is more descriptive. Let me try that

    to the Trino logs and query failure messages to see which files need to be
    deleted.

DROP TABLE
^^^^^^^^^^

> By default, ``DROP TABLE`` operations are disabled on Hive catalogs. To

Reviewer: Should mention that "by default" here means "only when hive.security=legacy - which is the default". i.e. if you set this property with some other `hive.security` then it'll be an error and Trino would fail to start.

```suggestion
``DROP TABLE`` operations are disabled on Hive catalogs when the `legacy` [Hive connector access control](/hive/security) is used which is the default. To
```

Reviewer 2: link to security section .. 
and also document the other allow drop and allow alter style properties

Author: Done
